Good morning one church.
How are you guys doing today?
I'm so glad you've taken time out of your schedules to join us for this special online service only that weird Sunday between Christmas and New Year's Day and as we're enjoying the break and I hope you guys are too and have had a festive and very, very Merry Christmas and are preparing to have a happy New Year where just this Sunday morning right here
just hanging out, just wanted to spend some time today, just talking about last year and then what we can do for next year.
But we'll get there in just a minute.
And this week between Christmas and New Year's, it's very strange.
Very strange one for me.
It's like time slows down.
It's this idea, you know, and the leftovers begin to pile up.
I sometimes forget what day it is.
I don't know what day it is, and somewhere between Christmas Day and New Year's Day, we begin to ask bigger questions though.
It's the question of, what am I doing with my life?
Where did the year go?
Man, is this all there is?
Is this it?
But I believe that God often uses this week to whisper something powerful
to his people.
You know, he's whispers, you know, you were made for more than what you settled for.
You were made for more than the battles you lost, the goals you missed, the mistakes you made.
You were made for more because I'm not done with you yet.
He's whispering those things to us.
And today I really want to take an opportunity to step into that truth.
You know, you and I were made for more.
And when I look back at this year for me, I'm gonna have a mixture of things.
And some things I thank God for.
And some, and I just wish I could rewrite a lot of moments there.
This year wasn't simple for me.
It wasn't smooth, but I have to reflect and go, it was shaping me.
You know, there were moments in my life
And this year where I felt God's favor, and strength, and it's blessing.
And man, in some ways, just humbling to me.
And in other ways, in other moments, I felt stretched physically, emotionally, spiritually, and sometimes even financially this year, very, very tough year.
You know, some of my struggles this year, I faced some pressures I didn't expect.
And I had to make some leadership decisions that I didn't ask for.
And I had to have some difficult conversations that I really, really did not want to have.
You know, there were days in ministry that felt heavy and just the weight of navigating tensions and, you know, trying to care for people and shepherd well and lead with wisdom, even though I couldn't see the path or that it just wasn't clear which direction to go.
And, you know, there were moments in my personal life where I felt discouraged
Man, I often wondered if what I was doing was enough.
I was wondering if I was enough, if I was growing enough, if I was truly stepping in to what God had called me to be.
There were seasons and moments in this past year where I felt just overly stretched, you know, between family responsibilities,
care here, pastoral care, small group leadership, major, major business decisions.
Like I said, financial strain and personal expectations that I placed upon myself that I felt I just continue to stack those things higher and higher and just the weight of it.
I faced some uncertainty this year around some major decisions that had to be made with a bicycle shop and closing and moving on and deciding what that would look like.
And what that was very, very difficult time for me and really wrestling with that.
You know, I dealt with relational strain and some misunderstandings and some accountability issues.
And man, sometimes I had to step into some roles I didn't want to.
The roles that required firmness and clarity and grace all at the same time.
And in their days of my life where spiritually I felt that prayer was costly and stillness was very hard to find.
And oftentimes where spiritual warfare felt more real than ever.
And this past year tested my endurance and my patience, my faith and sometimes my trust in Him.
But you know, this year also held successes, real God given, joy giving wins.
I know I saw some growth in areas that really mattered deeply to me.
You know, I saw breakthroughs this year in my relationship with God and in my walk with him and I saw him shaping my identity and my leadership and my voice.
I saw him moving through sermons and teaching and
You know, it's small groups and, you know, the men's group on Monday nights and, you know, just some personal conversations that I was able to have with people that ordinarily wouldn't have had the opportunity to do so.
I saw some growth as a husband and as a dad too, even though my kids are older, it's still the ability to be a good father.
And, you know, although I think that growth was slower than I wanted at times, but it was steady.
And it was real and it was God powered growth.
You know, I saw some discipline form and it's of different ways in my commitment to fitness and some goals that I had and wanted to achieve and seeing those things.
And not just because I love fitness, but because I wanted to be better.
You know, I wanted to face my inconsistencies there and really change my expectations and remove any frustrations I had.
You know, as I began to work and change and do those things, the learning to manage life's pressures with fitness and then the ability to train with intention, you know, to reach a level of fitness that I hadn't seen in many years.
And it was just, it was great just to be able to do that.
I know I built some deeper relationships this year with leaders and friends and inside the community.
And I watched God bringing healing to some places and some reveals some next steps in my faith.
And some next steps in others around me.
And I watched and saw God sustain my family through some of those financial decisions I saw him provide and restore.
And then he just continued to remind me again and again about his strength is made perfect in my weakness.
and to see that and live that.
And when I put it all together, when I see it all put together, my struggles and my successes, here's what I learned.
God waste nothing.
God doesn't waste a thing.
You know, not the pressure, not the late nights, not the frustrations, not the discipline,
Not the training, not the leadership.
He doesn't waste the emotional weight of those tough conversations, though not the moments where I felt stretched beyond myself.
God used all of it.
Every high, every low as a reminder to me that I was made for more, that you are made for more.
You know, we are made for more than what we fear.
We're made for more than what we struggle with.
We're made for more than the battles we fight.
We're made for more than the parts of ourselves that feel unfinished.
You know, I look back and I go, this year did not break me.
It built me because the hand of God was shaping me, forming me, and preparing me.
And the same God who carried me through this year is the same God that is leading me into the next.
And if I'm honest, the more I reflect on my own year, those breakthroughs, the battles, the more I realize something.
I'm not alone.
My struggles are not unique.
My wins aren't isolated and my questions, my frustrations, my hopes.
They're not just my story, they're our story.
They're his story.
because we're being real with each other today.
We all have lives that are mixed chapters last year.
They're mixed.
It's filled with mixed.
You know, some of us walk through success.
Some of us walk through storms.
Some of us did that in the same week.
Some of us ended this year celebrating.
Some of us ended this year exhausted.
Some of us ended this year feeling a little lost.
And I think all of us have moments just like I did where we wonder, am I really where I'm supposed to be?
Did I miss something God wanted me to do?
Is this all that God has for me?
Why do I feel stuck?
Why does purpose feel so far away from me?
And I think because most of us, we believe, and the truth about us is most of us believe that God can do more.
We believe that.
We believe God can do more.
We have that.
We know that.
I think we just struggle to believe that He can do more through us.
Because when we look back, we see the mistakes we made or the times we didn't pray or the opportunities we missed or didn't take the habits that we, that we didn't build or the habits that we did.
Some of those fears that we might not have overcome them.
We just came right to the edge.
You know, we feel like the time was wasted or the, that we fell short.
And sometimes even without realizing it, we begin to settle.
We settle for a routine instead of renewal.
We settle for maintenance instead of mission.
We settle for comfort instead of calling.
We settle for who we were instead of who God says we are.
We begin to think, this is just how my life is.
This is all I'll ever be.
Maybe God does do big things, just not with me.
But, friends, here's the good news.
What we see when we look back and what God sees when He looks at us are not the same thing.
Where we see regret, God sees redemption.
Where we see failure, God sees formation.
Where we see not enough.
God sees the exact place where His power can show up.
And that's why we can't look through our year, the past year, through our own lens.
We have to look at it through His because God has something to say about last year.
God has something to say about your next year.
And God has something to say about you right now in this moment and what He
says is far better, far clearer, and far stronger than anything we say to ourselves.
So before we dive into goals and resolutions and plans for the upcoming year, before we decide what we want to improve or change before the voices of fear, the shame or comparison start to shape our story, I think we got to take time to stop and ask.
What does God say about this?
What does God say about us?
Because if we're going to step into a new year the right way, I don't think we could do it based on how we feel, or even how we think.
I think we must anchor ourselves into what God has spoken.
Because your past may explain you, but God's purpose defines you.
And that's our big idea today.
Your past may explain you, but God's purpose defines you.
I've talked about what I faced this year.
We've talked about what we have faced.
But let's take some time to talk about what God says about who we are and who we're becoming.
Because when we open Scripture, we discover something powerful.
When we look into God's Word,
discover something powerful.
We were made for more.
And not because of our potential, but because of God's purpose.
His purpose.
And not because of our strength, but because of his plan.
We were made for more.
So what does that mean?
What does it look like when we look into scripture and we see what is God saying
through his word to us.
What does scripture say about made for more?
And I want to start today in Ephesians 2, 10.
For we are God's masterpiece.
He created us anew in Christ so we can do the good things he planned for us long ago.
And Paul wrote this and
before anyone had an opinion about you, before you succeeded or failed, before the past year shaped you or scarred you, God spoke purpose over your life.
Right there, you are His masterpiece.
And it's not because you feel perfect or because you performed perfectly
but because the hands that formed the universe formed you and me with intention.
You see, a masterpiece is not rushed.
It's not accidental.
It's not disposable.
A masterpiece is crafted with care and detail, vision and identity.
And it's never meant to be hidden away.
A masterpiece is not meant to be hidden.
You were not made to blend in.
You're not made to live a life of merely existing.
You're not made to just survive.
So we were made to display the work of God.
And that's why Paul says, he has created us anew.
Created us anew, not
Improved not just patched patched up or put back together and not just doing better a new brand new From the inside out You know Jesus didn't come to rescue us so that we could feel Forgiven he rescued us so that we could step into the good things that God planned long ago and
And what I mean, what he's meaning there is that, you know, when we look at those things before the divorce, before the addiction, before the affair, the financial mess, the anxiety and the insecurity, before the things that you'll never tell anyone about, God had already written a purpose into your story.
So if this year felt wasted, you felt like you missed your chance, if you feel like God is disappointed or done with you,
Or maybe you feel like time has passed you by.
I want to hear this clearly today.
And hear it as the voice of the Father, not the voice of your fear.
You see, your purpose, it didn't expire.
It didn't collapse.
Your destiny is not dead.
Your story is not over.
You are still a masterpiece of God and masterpieces do not lose
their value.
Even when time has passed, even when life has been messy, even when you cracked into pressure, you see, the artist is not finished.
The author is not done writing.
And the potter, he has not finished shaping you.
And the good things he had planned for you,
They didn't disappear when the disappoint, disappointments of this year.
They didn't get canceled when you stumbled.
They didn't evaporate because you feel unqualified.
They're still waiting.
They're still ahead.
They're still possible.
And they are still prepared by God himself.
Because we got to remember we were made on purpose for purpose.
And that purpose still stands.
You were made to move forward.
In Isaiah 43, 18 through 19.
Isaiah writes, but forget all that is nothing compared to what I am going to do for I'm about to change to do something new.
It's God's being God meets Israel in that moment of exhaustion and disappointment and discouraging and they're looking back.
They're looking back and rehearsing their past failures.
and replaying the past wounds and remembering their past disappointments.
And right there, in the middle of their looking backward, God interrupts with this command.
Forget all that.
You know, not because the past doesn't matter, not because God ignores your pain, and not because you should pretend nothing happened, but because the past is not where God
want you to live.
You know, you can visit your past, but you're not called to live there.
And I think most of us spent this year living in one or two places.
You know, we lived in the prison of the past pain.
We carry regret of what we did, the grief of what we lost, the shame of who we were,
or the disappointment of what didn't happen.
And the second one is some of us lived in this comfort of past success.
Sometimes success traps us as much as failure.
We cling to old seasons so tightly that we miss the new things God has in store for us.
We miss the new things that to grow into.
See both pain and success
Can't keep us stuck.
But God says right there, forget all that.
I am doing something new.
In other words, don't measure next year by last year.
Don't limit your future based on your past.
And don't assume that what was is all that there will ever be.
See, our God is not a God of stuck.
He's the God of next.
He is the God of new.
If you're breathing this morning, if you are breathing today, then God is still building.
If you woke up, he's still working.
And if there's a pulse in your chest, there's still purpose for your life.
You know, this past year may have felt like wandering and waiting or wasting or breaking or barely hanging on.
But our God specializes in new beginnings.
You know, just because you haven't seen movements doesn't mean that God hasn't been making a way.
Oftentimes, God does His best work underground, preparing, shaping, healing, and restoring, and repositioning.
You see, the next year will not be powered by your strength.
It will be powered by God's
work in you.
We are made to move forward.
So don't let yesterday chain you to a place God has already moved you out of.
You were made to press on.
Paul writes in Philippians 3 12 through 14.
I press on to possess that perfection, which Christ Jesus first possessed in me for getting the past looking forward to what lies ahead.
I press on.
I don't mean to say that I've already achieved these things.
I've already reached perfection, but I press on to possess the perfection in which Christ Jesus first possessed me.
As Paul's writing this, he has every reason to quit.
He has failures behind him.
And he was honest about them when he writes.
He was honest about those failures and he has some battles in front of him.
And he's not pretending that they're not real.
But he also had a calling inside him and that calling pulled him forward.
Paul says, I press on.
Press on.
He didn't say I cruise through or coast in or just drift lightly there.
No, I press.
There's effort.
There's intention.
There's spiritual grit.
There is a holy refusal to settle.
Why?
Because Jesus has more for him and for us.
And for us, because if Jesus had more for Paul, he has more for you and for me.
And some of us think pressing on means trying harder or performing better or fixing ourselves.
But pressing on in the kingdom isn't about earning, it's about leaning, leaning into what Jesus says you are, to what Jesus says you are, leaning into the spirit when you're tired and when you're weary.
If you're uncertain, you lean into scripture, you lean into prayer when you feel overwhelmed and you just, you don't know where to go
When you feel alone, you got to lean into community.
And sometimes we have to lean into obedience even when it's uncomfortable.
Pressing on means I refuse to be who I used to be because Jesus is making me into who I was always meant to be.
Paul says, forget the past.
Not meaning that he erases it, but he refuses to let it direct his steps.
He looks forward, not to wishful thinking, but to the calling of Christ.
There's going to be some moments next year in 2026 when pressing on is a choice.
You're going to be tired, tempted, discouragement is going to whisper, comparison is going to steal the joy and fear is going to say, stop here.
But those are the moment.
When we lean into the Holy Spirit and be reminded that we were made for more than quitting, we were made for more than going back.
We were made to press on because the God who called you is the God who strengthened you.
And the God who strengthened you is the God who finishes what he started in you.
We were made on purpose.
We were made to move forward.
We were made to press on.
So what would it look like?
What does it look like to move into 2026 made for more?
What do we do?
What do we do in 2026 as we begin the new year?
I think there are four declarations that we can make.
The first one is I will not be defined by last year.
Last year might explain you, but it does not have to define you.
Your failures, they don't get the final word.
Your mistakes don't get the microphone and your weaknesses.
They don't get the winning vote, okay?
Your grace gets the final word.
Jesus gets the microphone and the Holy Spirit gets the final vote.
Two, I will choose progress over perfection.
We don't have to fix everything by January 1st, but we can't take a step
Just a step.
Small steps are where big changes begin.
Maybe it's just one prayer a day.
Maybe it's just one step in obedience.
Maybe it's just one habit surrendered.
Or one relationship healed.
Or maybe that's one person that you pour into.
Because small change, small steps,
Small obedience still moves mountains.
Three, I will live for God's purpose, not my comfort.
God did not call us to sit on the couch.
He called us to the kingdom.
In our comfort, we cannot change the world.
But in our calling, in our purpose for our lives, we can.
This year,
Let's step where God leads us.
Even if it's uncomfortable, even if it's inconvenient, and even if it's unfamiliar, because purpose lives on the other side of obedience.
And four, I will trust that God has more for me.
More strength, more freedom, more joy, more maturity, more impact.
And more of His presence in my everyday life.
You can walk into the new year with expectation because we serve a God of more.
And imagine as a church family, what God could do if we all lived this out, if we all were living out our purpose, his purpose for our lives, if each person
stepped into their calling this year.
If each household became a place of prayer, if we fought our sins instead of hiding them, maybe every student believed that God could use them, if every person in our church that is hurting start to find healing, if we just believe that we were a masterpiece
instead of a mistake.
You see, we wouldn't just attend church.
We'd become the church that God designed us to be.
We would see renewal in our marriages, in our families, in our mental health, discipleship, community outreach, the next generation.
We would be a more kind
of church.
We would be more.
We.
And that includes me.
That includes you.
As a step into the final days of this year, the next couple of days, I want you to hear this truth.
I want you to hear it again.
You are made for more than you have been settling for.
You're made for more than life through at you last year.
You're made for more because we're made by God.
We are His masterpiece.
So let go of the weight of the year behind you and lift your eyes to the year ahead.
And as we step into 2026, let's step into it with confidence.
A confidence that God is not done.
God is not finished.
And God is not holding back.
We were made for more.
Let's walk in it.
God, we love you.
We thank you for your grace.
We thank you for your mercy.
We thank you for all the things in our lives.
We thank you for last year, the shaping, the pain, the successes, the failures,
the opportunities we just come humbly before you today as your masterpieces just asking for renewal just humbly laying everything at your feet recognizing that our strength our joy is found in you the victory is yours we just need to continue moving forward as we end
This year, we just ask for continued blessings.
We ask that you look after us next year as we continue to press on our desire to grow closer to you, to be the people that you have called us to be, to recognize that we are made on purpose by you for a purpose created by you.
That we can step into that.
that we could see that purpose clearly, that we keep our eyes fixed on you this year, that we remain in you, in your word, just continue to guide us, lead us, show us the step.
Just ask for encouragement this year for those that are hurting, last for healing,
for those that want to see you, that we could be the people that people see you and not us this year.
They see you in our worship, you in our teaching, you in our speaking, you in our everyday actions Lord.
We ask all of these things and Jesus is powerful and mighty name.
Amen.
Have a happy new year.
Go be the church.